Enlightened leadership is spiritual if we understand spirituality not as some kind of religious dogma or ideology but as the domain of awareness where we experience values like truth, goodness, beauty, love and compassion, and also intuition, creativity, insight and focused attention.
Our minds influence the key activity of the brain, which then influences everything; perception, cognition, thoughts and feelings, personal relationships; they're all a projection of you.
If you want to do really important things in life and big things in life, you can't do anything by yourself. And your best teams are your friends and your siblings.
The highest levels of performance come to people who are centered, intuitive, creative, and reflective - people who know to see a problem as an opportunity.
Karma is experience, and experience creates memory, and memory creates imagination and desire, and desire creates karma again. If I buy a cup of coffee, that's karma. I now have that memory that might give me the potential desire for having cappuccino, and I walk into Starbucks, and there's karma all over again.
New Age values are conscious evolution, a non-sectarian society, a non-military culture, global sharing, healing the environment, sustainable economies, self-determination, social justice, economic empowerment of the poor, love, compassion in action, going beyond religious fundamentalism, going beyond nationalism-extreme nationalism, culture.
You have to think of your brand as a kind of myth. A myth is a compelling story that is archetypal, if you know the teachings of Carl Jung. It has to have emotional content and all the themes of a great story: mystery, magic, adventure, intrigue, conflicts, contradiction, paradox.
Many scientists think that philosophy has no place, so for me it's a sad time because the role of reflection, contemplation, meditation, self inquiry, insight, intuition, imagination, creativity, free will, is in a way not given any importance, which is the domain of philosophers.
It takes a little bit of mindfulness and a little bit of attention to others to be a good listener, which helps cultivate emotional nurturing and engagement.
But the real secret to lifelong good health is actually the opposite: Let your body take care of you.
Always go with your passions. Never ask yourself if it's realistic or not.
You and I are essentially infinite choice-makers. In every moment of our existence, we are in that field of all possibilities where we have access to an infinity of choices.
Our thinking and our behaviour are always in anticipation of a response. It is therefore fear-based.
I've worked all my life on the subject of awareness, whether it's awareness of the body, awareness of the mind, awareness of your emotions, awareness of your relationships, or awareness of your environment. I think the key to transforming your life is to be aware of who you are.
There are no extra pieces in the universe. Everyone is here because he or she has a place to fill, and every piece must fit itself into the big jigsaw puzzle.
You can't make positive choices for the rest of your life without an environment that makes those choices easy, natural, and enjoyable.
In the midst of movement and chaos, keep stillness inside of you.
The world sometimes feels like an insane asylum. You can decide whether you want to be an inmate or pick up your visitor's badge. You can be in the world but not engage in the melodrama of it; you can become a spiritual being having a human experience thoroughly and fully.
The way you think, the way you behave, the way you eat, can influence your life by 30 to 50 years.
Traditional Islam is a mixture of all obedience to Allah, and if that requires militancy, so be it.
We are not victims of aging, sickness and death. These are part of scenery, not the seer, who is immune to any form of change. This seer is the spirit, the expression of eternal being.
Wall Street is broken for sure because it succumbed to greed and corruption and pure speculation with no values.
The real key is to live in an environment where the mind feels free to choose the right thing instead of being compelled by habit and inertia to choose the wrong thing.
I, of course, meditate for two hours every morning. It's part of my schedule; I wake up at 4 a.m. every day and I love it.
Globalism began as a vision of a world with free trade, shared prosperity, and open borders. These are good, even noble things to aim for.

We can actually accelerate the process through meditation, through the ability to find stillness through loving actions, through compassion and sharing, through understanding the nature of the creative process in the universe and having a sense of connection to it. So, that's conscious evolution.
Meditation makes the entire nervous system go into a field of coherence.
Passivity is the same as defending injustice.
Success comes when people act together; failure tends to happen alone.
Ultimately spiritual awareness unfolds when you're flexible, when you're spontaneous, when you're detached, when you're easy on yourself and easy on others.
Karma, when properly understood, is just the mechanics through which consciousness manifests.
There is just no getting around that turning bad things into good things is up to you.
Well-being changes as we move through life, which is why a child's version of it cannot be the same as an old person's.
In a person's career, well, if you're process-oriented and not totally outcome-oriented, then you're more likely to be success. I often say 'pursue excellence, ignore success.' Success is a by-product of excellence.
Spirituality is meant to take us beyond our tribal identity into a domain of awareness that is more universal.
Yes, in all my research, the greatest leaders looked inward and were able to tell a good story with authenticity and passion.
Before a brain can register a thought, a mind must think it... every step of the way is mind over matter... We override our brains all the time.
I teach people that no matter what the situation is, no matter how chaotic, no matter how much drama is around you, you can heal by your presence if you just stay within your center.
Life gives you plenty of time to do whatever you want to do if you stay in the present moment.
Nothing is more important than reconnecting with your bliss. Nothing is as rich. Nothing is more real.
People need to know that they have all the tools within themselves. Self-awareness, which means awareness of their body, awareness of their mental space, awareness of their relationships - not only with each other, but with life and the ecosystem.
No matter how closely you examine the water, glucose, and electrolyte salts in the human brain, you can't find the point where these molecules became conscious.
Although we take it for granted, sanitation is a physical measure that has probably done more to increase human life span than any kind of drug or surgery.
For thousands of years, human beings have been obsessed with beauty, truth, love, honor, altruism, courage, social relationships, art, and God. They all go together as subjective experiences, and it's a straw man to set God up as the delusion. If he is, then so is truth itself or beauty itself.
Research has shown that the best way to be happy is to make each day happy.
The symbolic language of the crucifixion is the death of the old paradigm; resurrection is a leap into a whole new way of thinking.
The less you open your heart to others, the more your heart suffers.
There is no fixed physical reality, no single perception of the world, just numerous ways of interpreting world views as dictated by one's nervous system and the specific environment of our planetary existence.
You can free yourself from aging by reinterpreting your body and by grasping the link between belief and biology.
Mature workers are less impulsive, less reactive, more creative and more centered.

Wealth is the progressive realization of worthy goals, the ability to love and have compassion, meaningful and caring relationships.
Muhammad is more human, more self-doubting, even self-tortured at times. His story is full of adventure, intrigue, betrayal.
In every conversation I've had - with housewives in Mumbai, with middle-class people, upper-class, in the slums - everyone says there is an underlying consciousness of karma. That people believe in karma - that what you're putting out is going to come back. If I do something to you, the energy of it is going to come back to me in the future.
So many things happen for every event, and if you try to manipulate it, it means you are struggling against the whole universe, and that's just silly.
I dislike the word 'self-help.' Self-awareness, yes, but not self-help.
Consciousness, rather than being an epiphenomenon of matter, is actually the source of matter. It differentiates into space time, energy, information, and matter. Even though this view is an ancient view, an ancient world view, it is now finding some resonance amongst a few scientists.
I have all the time in the world. I am in touch with the timeless. I am surrounded by infinity. When I think like that, it doesn't mean I'm going to miss my train, it just means that I'm not thinking about it right now because I'm speaking to you.
Traditional science assumes, for the most part, that an objective observer independent reality exists; the universe, stars, galaxies, sun, moon and earth would still be there if no one was looking.
When I looked at the addictive qualities of video games and how they captivate people's attention, I decided to try the same technology for enhancing well-being.
Our most important task is to transform our consciousness so that violence is no longer an option for us in our personal lives, that understanding that a world of peace is possible only if we relate to each other as peaceful beings, one individual at a time.
We must go beyond the constant clamor of ego, beyond the tools of logic and reason, to the still, calm place within us: the realm of the soul.
Happiness is a continuation of happenings which are not resisted.
If you and I are having a single thought of violence or hatred against anyone in the world at this moment, we are contributing to the wounding of the world.
To think is to practice brain chemistry.
I think we need the feminine qualities of leadership, which include attention to aesthetics and the environment, nurturing, affection, intuition and the qualities that make people feel safe and cared for.
The intention to live as long as possible isn't one of the mind's best intentions, because quantity isn't the same as quality.
We all feel the urge to condemn ourselves out of guilt, to blame others for our misfortunes and to fantasize about total disaster.
Every person is a God in embryo. Its only desire is to be born.
The greatest mystery of existence is existence itself.
Modern medicine, for all its advances, knows less than 10 percent of what your body knows instinctively.
A person is a pattern of behavior, of a larger awareness.
The physical world, including our bodies, is a response of the observer. We create our bodies as we create the experience of our world.
It is the nature of babies to be in bliss.
A risk-free life is far from being a healthy life.
Victims always feel alone and helpless.

All religions develop, become exclusive, become divisive and quarrelsome.
Karma, memory, and desire are just the software of the soul. It's conditioning that the soul undergoes in order to create experience. And it's a cycle. In most people, the cycle is a conditioned response. They do the same things over and over again.
Self-awareness is not just relaxation and not just meditation. It must combine relaxation with activity and dynamism. Technology can aid that.
No solution can ever be found by running in three different directions.
Once the fabric of a just society is undone, it takes generations to weave it back together.
Karma is only in space time and causality. Your real self resides non-locally.
I went to medical school because I wanted to ask the big questions. Do we have a soul? Does God exist? What happens after death?
What gets in our way is history and culture and religion and economic conditions. It is part of the hypnosis of our social conditioning.
We have to really educate ourselves in a way about who we are, what our real identity is.
We're living in a time when the world has suddenly discovered India because it's run out of raw material for its imagination. The raw materials for imagination are inexhaustible here.
Human beings place their desires ahead of the collective good.
I grew up with a lot of Muslim friends, and the whole idea of revelation has been a lifelong interest of mine.
I have tremendous faith in President Obama's skills. He's a long-term visionary.
I've always felt that technology can be used to our benefit and should be used to our benefit.
There are receptors to these molecules in your immune system, in your gut and in your heart. So when you say, 'I have a gut feeling' or 'my heart is sad' or 'I am bursting with joy,' you're not speaking metaphorically. You're speaking literally.
Every spiritual tradition has this idea of death and resurrection. It's not unique to Christianity.
Your immune cells are like a circulating nervous system. Your nervous system in fact is a circulating nervous system. It thinks. It's conscious.
Your conscious brain cannot multitask. If I'm speaking to you and checking my I-Phone at the same time, I'm doing neither. This is why our society is frazzled; this misconception that we can consciously do more than one thing at a time effectively.
People think meditation is a huge undertaking. Don't think of it like that.
The masculine energy was about survival. The male was the hunter who risked his life and had to be in the fight-flight mode.
The world in general has meaning, deep meaning at times. This cannot be dismissed as a delusion, an artifact of chemicals.
What happens is consciousness operates in mysterious ways. One of those ways is that the old paradigm suddenly starts to die.
Spiritual people should not be ashamed of being wealthy.
I like Muhammad a lot, because he's like us more than anybody else. Jesus is just so exalted, and Buddha is just so exalted, it's almost beyond our reach.
There are very few good examples of effective, nurturing leadership that unlocks people's potential or even enthusiasm.

We Americans sit at the head of the banquet table, as we have done for a century. Our standard of living is luxurious by any measure.
Science stands for rational thought, faith for superstition and unreason.
Some Western biographies are apologist, and do not portray the negative side at all.
There is no separation between mind and body... Self and other co-arise and fall away all the time.
Dynamic activity and deep rest of the mind are complementary to each other.
In India, you're taught that there are certain qualities that make you a divine human being.
All of us are living with dogmas that we accept as truths. When one of these is overturned, there's an initial gasp, soon followed by a rush of exhilaration.
In societies where mature workers are respected and where their wisdom is respected, everybody benefits. Workers are more engaged and productive. Their health is better. They live longer.
And for me anyway, consciousness is three components: a personal component which for lack of a better word we can call the soul. A collective component which is more archetypal and a deeper level, and then a universal domain of consciousness.
We need to build websites with celebrity speakers who talk about the ideals of fairness, sharing, democratic cooperation, and altruism in public life.
As long as you think of your real self as the person you are, then of course you're going to be fearful of death. But what is a person? A person is a pattern of behavior, of a larger awareness. You know, the two-year-old dies before the three-year-old shows up, the three-year-old dies before the teenager shows up.
From a scientist's perspective, to understand everything that you need to know about human beings, you only have to tinker with all the mechanical parts of genes and the brain until there are no more secrets left.
Seeking can become stressful when you apply the same laws that you apply in the material world - hard work, exacting plans, driving ambition, and attachment to outcome.
I like Muhammad a lot, because he's like us more than anybody else. Jesus is just so exalted, and Buddha is just so exalted, it's almost beyond our reach. Muhammad is more human, more self-doubting, even self-tortured at times.
A child in India grows up with the idea that you have to make choices that will create a better future. In fact, your whole life is a continuum of choices, so the more conscious you are, the greater your life will be.
Perceptual reality is different for different species. In certain species it is a mode of observation, so what we call scientific fact is actually not ultimate truth, it is perceptual experience, and it's a mode of observation.
When resources become skimpy, human beings don't suddenly cooperate to conserve what's left. They fight to the last scrap for possession of a diminishing resource.
In moments of transcendence, when time stands still, your biological clock will stop. The spirit is that domain of our awareness where there is no time.
Being more aware creates responsibility. What does responsibility mean? It means the ability to respond. The more conscious you are in your ability to respond, the more creative you'll be.
If insurance companies paid for lifestyle-management classes, they would save huge sums of money. We need to see that alternative medicine is now mainstream.
Self-awareness is value-free. It isn't scary. It doesn't imply that you will subject yourself to needless pain.
The fear of death comes from limited awareness.
Consciousness conceives, governs, constructs, and becomes the activity of the body.
Preventive medicine isn't part of a physician's everyday routine, which is spent dispensing drugs and performing surgery.
Religions take donations and don't pay taxes.

You know, religion itself, Eastern and Western, is divisive and quarrelsome anyway.
In my definition of consciousness, consciousness is the same thing as life. What wisdom traditions also call spirit.
So the universe is constantly moving in the direction of higher evolutionary impulses, creativity, abstraction, and meaning.
We must revisit the idea that science is a methodology and not an ontology.
When I was growing up, I went to an Irish-Christian missionary school.
I was always interested in going deeply into the life of the Prophet.
Once you're more aware of people's needs, you can create action plans for others to follow. That way, you're responsible for your own well-being, too.
My father was a doctor, an army cardiologist.
My own training is in the field of neuroendocrinology and I really became very fascinated many years ago with the molecules of emotion, molecules that we call neuropeptides.
I feel genius in great works of art. I have seen medical cures that science can't explain, some seemingly triggered by faith. The same is true of millions of other people.